---
layout: post
title: 'My Toolkit, 2014 Edition'
date: '2014-07-07'
category:
  - note
author: Keiran Lovett
---

As a freelancer and designer I have quite a few tools at my disposal. I thought I'd share what I use apps and tools I use almost everyday - while the list can go on forever and ever I'll just keep it limited to productivity tools.

### Creative

**Adobe Creative Cloud** [Link](https://creative.adobe.com/products/creative-cloud), Paid

Pretty much goes without saying. You wanna get shit done these are the tools to do it. While I avoid dreamweaver with a passion the rest of the suite is superb. A little annoyed at how much overhead there is with Creative Cloud and its power drain on Macs, but this is Adobe - they're not exactly conservative with this stuff.

**Cloud App** [Link](http://getcloudapp.com/), Free

Cloud is that perfect little app that is always there for you. When I'm working on a photoshop that I want online quickly its just a keyboard shortcut away from the intertubes. I use it regularly to share files with friends and coworkers and for lots of my business. While I don't think the pricing plan is exactly justified I've worked well on the free version for a few years now. The latest update has also given it a huge boost.

**Frank DeLoupe** [Link](http://jumpzero.com/frank), Free

With such a cute name already its deserving of this list. Another toolbar app that I have running constantly besides Cloud App, this tool lets me pick up any colour displayed on the screen easily. It also has a great history function and you can change the colour code output easily.

**Steam** [Link](http://store.steampowered.com/) , Free

A sad and laughable confession for a game designer, but after having an account for almost five years its only just recently I've started to use Steam. This is partially because the Mac library is big enough now to warrant investment in it. It makes the list simply because its a great way to brainstorm or even passively come up with ideas while solving puzzles or blasting zombies.

### Development

**Coda** [Link](http://panic.com/coda/) , Paid

Coda is the ultimate web designer’s toolkit. Including reference materials, a built-in FTP, and git integration. Though I believe Panic can build up Coda a little more its been my go to program since its inception. Well worth every dollar.

**Unity3D** [Link](http://www.unity3d.com) , Free

As a game designer the tool is a god send. I must admit when it came out I laughed at the program, but now its set itself apart from the competition in so many ways. The online store has really helped its growth and the updates are frequent enough to keep you on your toes. Now if they could do something about the childish and self-entitled community that would be great. The forums always leave a bad taste in my mouth.

**Crazy Bump** [Link](http://www.crazybump.com) , Free

Currently in Beta, its a great tool that creates normal maps automatically for you. While its no substitute for true hand made normal maps its great for rapid prototyping or simple materials.

<h3>Boring Business Stuff</h3>

**Billings** [Link](http://www.billingsapp.com/) , Paid
The only reason I still use this is that it provides me with some great invoice creation options. The interface is hard to use but having a personalised invoice makes it worthwhile in the long run.

<h3>Online</h3>

**Bluehost**

I have never been frustrated with Bluehost. With unlimited space, amazing customer support, and the ability to manage all my domains and what not its an unbelievable bargain. Seriously, the conversations with customer support always leave me in a good mood.

**Google Drive**

I use this for all my word processing. Hell, I uninstalled iLife and the Office suite! I still have all my notes and projects from High School on there - its great and easy.

**GitHub**

Though my personal activity there is pretty lackluster I find GitHub to be a great place for inspiration and reference. So much good comes from there. Open source is truly a blessing.

**StackOverflow**

I always feel like an idiot when I go there with my problems but the community is just so fast and amazing. I once had a guy dedicate 30minutes of his personal time walking me step by step through so mysql issues I was having. 90% unjudging community. Love it!


### Notable Mentions

* **Bowtie** Teeny little app that shows what musics currently playing. Neat and handy!
* **Audacity** Eh, its free...
* **Sparrow** Yeah fuck you Google. Really!
* **Screeny** The perfect little screen recorder for Macs.
* **Subler** I love iTunes and a complete library, and this tool adds meta-data to any movie published ever!
* **Inboard** Currently in beta, a great tool to use to keep all my inspirational images together. Two weeks in and I'm loving it.